the human body is as complex and
unexplored as the universe itself don't
believe me fine this is gonna be a very
short video wait a minute wait a minute
what if I told you there was an organ in
the body we didn't know about until 2019
how did that happen well here are some
other incredible things about us the
microcosm brushing your teeth isn't
always good if you do it too vigorously
you can remove your enamel neurons do
recover and they actually do it quite
fast up to five millimeters per day as
long as the cell they're in is intact
you can be proud of your chin because
there's no other animal that has it only
humans do you don't like the sound of
your own voice on record because you're
used to hearing it differently inside
your head the walls of your skull change
your voice for you you blink over 15,000
times a day and the muscle in your
eyelid is the fastest in your body your
fingernails grow faster on your dominant
hand also during the summer and on sunny
days in the winter hmm not so much all
the bones in your body will be
completely renewed in ten years time
it's a whole new you you have more in
common with a banana than you think
humans share 60% of their DNA with this
fruit body fat transforms into co2 and
water which basically means you're
exhaling it there's also enough of this
stuff in you to make about seven bars of
soap Fight Club anyone the only part of
your body that doesn't get any blood is
the cornea of the eye it receives oxygen
directly from the air
you have almost 100 more bones as a
child than as an adult as you grow some
bones fuse together nobody actually
knows how many muscles you need to smile
a frown even more some people have 40%
fewer facial muscles than the rest every
year the average person sheds about 6
pounds of skin hopefully not all at once
tastebuds in your mouth aren't visible
to a naked eye those bumps on your
tongue are called papillae and tastebuds
are on their top by the way the buds
themselves only live for 10 to 14 days
and then get replaced kind of like in
turns the skin on your fingertips gets
all wrinkled for you to get a better
grip under water but scientists haven't
yet figured out why women do see more
color variations than men on average
they can see about three to four times
more shades breathing and blinking are
the only processes that you do
automatically but still can control
you've started noticing yourself doing
both right now haven't you there's an
organ that was only discovered in 2019
it's called the interstitial and it's a
lining between other organs and muscles
you might want to write that down there
will be a quiz later we might lose our
toes in the process of evolution
originally our ancestors needed them to
climb trees and they were much longer
now we almost don't use them at all pain
is a necessary reaction sorry since it
helps us understand
something's wrong with us if there was
no pain we wouldn't be able to diagnose
many diseases and they couldn't sell us
aspirin
Lindt inside your belly button collects
there because there are hairs grown
specifically to catch it really the
liver is the only organ of the body that
can regrow itself to its original size
even if a tiny fraction of it is left
only your head is prone to alopecia or
balding
that's why hair is usually transplanted
from other areas of your body there is
no relaxed position of the tongue in the
mouth it's always strained but it never
gets tired although it's a muscle
stretching much like yawning increases
blood flow to the muscles and also
releases endorphins this makes you feel
good and wake up by the way fun fact
endorphins are not marine mammals those
are in dolphins
speaking of yawning it helps you grab
more oxygen from the air when your brain
is tired and needs a push like Rodo not
only yawns are contagious by the way
when you see someone vigorously
scratching you start to itch yourself
scratching helps because it sends a pain
signal to your brain which diverts it to
tension from the itch your foot is the
same length as your forearm wrist to
elbow check it out
you're also shining a little bit your
light is so weak though that you can't
see it in space your body grows a little
taller there's no gravity so your spine
relaxes you also grow older the faster
the higher up in the sky you are
tickling is unpleasant to many people
but they still laugh because it's an
involuntary reflex they can even be in
pain but won't stop laughing tickle
responsibly
the biggest bone in the human body is a
thigh bone while the smallest is a
stirrup it's in the middle ear and it's
only 1/10 of an inch in size we can't
remember our childhood because our
memory continues to develop until
teenage years before that there's too
much unknown in our life to remember
everything properly we blush because of
an adrenaline rush
what's more the lining of our stomach
becomes red too check it out
swallow a GoPro and see now don't do
that
the exact reason why we have
fingerprints is still unknown it might
be for improving the sense of touch
though I think it just gives the FBI
something to do even if they're
completely erased for some reason
fingerprints eventually restore their
pattern now you can smell up to a
trillion different smells but there are
people who can't smell them at all it's
a condition called anosmia your nose and
ears are the only parts of your body
that never stop growing yeah nails and
hair aren't body parts because they
don't grow like arms and legs and
they're made of the same material called
keratin there's no smart reason behind
wisdom teeth appearing in your mouth and
in some people they never even grow your
memory can store about 4 terabytes of
data which is probably why some of your
less important memories are lost to make
way for new and more important ones
most of the time the air you breathe
through your nose
passes through only one nostril it
changes once in a while you can live
without one of any paired organ or body
part like eyes arms legs or even kidneys
and lungs there are conditions in which
you have to have your whole stomach
removed you can still live an eat normal
food after that if you smooth out the
brain it will be the size of a
pillowcase moving your ears is an
ability that proves evolution our
ancestors use it to locate enemies and
prey just like other animals do only 30%
of those capable of moving ears by the
way are able to move only one the blood
in your body travels the distance around
the earth in just two days you spend
about a third of your life asleep your
cat though spends about 75 percent of
its life napping all in all your eyes
are closed for almost 40% of your life
that includes not only sleeping but
blinking too which accounts for 10% of
waking hours if you're really really
starved your stomach will start munching
on its own walls and your brain - you
feel dehydrated when you lose about 1%
of your body moisture a 5% loss can
cause you to faint the small intestine
is in fact four times as long as the
large one it's 20 feet vs. 5 feet you
become up to an inch shorter by night
than you were in the morning that's
because your spine stretches at night
but gravity pushes it down during the
day although it's really hard it's
possible to sneeze with your eyes open
now you can't swallow food and breathe
at the same time but babies can you're
paired organs aren't symmetrical with
each other your right kidney is lower
than the left and the lungs are
different in size and shape contrary to
the widespread myth we use 100% of our
brain just not all the time your hands
would be half as strong if not for the
pinkies enamel on your teeth is not
white it's transparent and slightly
bluish dentin which is the layer right
beneath the enamel is not white either
it's yellow your eyes don't register a
continuous image like a video they take
a non-stop series of separate pictures
that your brain smooths out into one on
average your body weight consists not
only of your own weight but also that of
bacteria living on and inside your body
they can take up to five pounds so
that's 14 pounds if you add in the skin
you flick off during the year although
the brain takes up just 2% of your
overall body weight it consumes about
20% of all the energy you gain you feel
sick on a roller coaster because your
brain thinks it's being poisoned the
reason is all the dizziness well yeah
there are people who don't smell bad
when they sweat that's because they have
much fewer skin bacteria which are
exactly the reason for the odor when you
scream your brain turns down the volume
for you on its own otherwise you might
go deaf when you're full you relax and
want to sleep because of the hormone
serotonin
it's a predatory thing we've inherited
from our ancestors
endorphin not in dolphin otherwise known
as the happiness hormone is released
every time you sneeze your brain
sometimes makes mistakes too but there
are neurons that catch those and send
proper signals to your body instead you
can tickle yourself but not in a way
that makes you laugh there's a tickling
sensation when a bug crawls across your
skin you can imitate that feeling for
yourself you can always see your nose
with your peripheral vision you just
choose not to notice it
well metals dissolve in stomach acid if
you swallow a coin at some point don't
worry the sense of smell takes active
part in feeling state if you can't smell
your taste is also affected if your
fingertips were the size of our planet
you'd have some really big hands and
those fingertips would be able to feel
separate buildings and even cars
what you see is a bit obsolete already
the image before your eyes is sent to
your brain and processed before you see
it this process takes about 60
milliseconds you're more likely to catch
a cold if you breathe through your mouth
your nose filters out most of the
particles in the air and also warms the
air itself your fingertips ear structure
tongue print and brain are unique there
are none out there like yours your brain
can feed a light bulb with the
electricity it produces in the awakened
state you'd only be able to digest grass
if you had an additional stomach or two
like cows do well good thing we don't
there are between 100 million and 1
billion bacteria living on each of your
teeth wow that's just TMI if your DNA
were uncoiled and stretched into a
single line it would go all the way from
Earth to Pluto and then back Wow muscles
can twitch by themselves if you're under
a lot of stress or have had too much
coffee or sweets recently by the way
your brain is a temperature detector
when your skin is too hot it sends a
signal to start sweating and when it's
too cold you'll begin shivering now
shivering is a natural reaction to call
rapid muscle contractions let you warm
up faster like rubbing your palms
together
ringing in your ears is called tinnitus
and is triggered by stress ironically it
can cause even more stress in its turn
your hands and feet get cold when you're
about to go on an important meeting
because your body gets you prepared for
serious stress and saves the heat and
blood for the most crucial organs the
skull alone consists of 22 different
bones 14 of them are facial hiccups are
a reaction to eating or drinking too
much your stomach distance and makes the
diaphragm right above it contract you
can see one cell of a human body with
your naked eye that cell is called the
egg or ovum skin is the largest organ of
our body there are people who can hear
their eyes moving inside their head you
can make your fingers grow muscular in
the gym because there are no muscles in
them we move our fingers with the help
of tendons in our forearms your
fingernails grow faster than your
toenails because they receive more Sun
there are only 43 people on earth who
have a blood type with no rh blood cell
antigens their blood is called golden
your eye color can change throughout
your life it's most noticeable in
children who might be born with for
instance black eyes which turn hazel
with age a difference in levels of the
melanin pigment can cause heterochromia
or different eye colors in a single
person Huskies are naturally predisposed
to it teeth are the only part of your
body that can't heal itself
humans are the only species on earth
that sleep on their backs
actually I beg to differ you should see
my dog Riley sleep on his back blue eye
color is actually a mutation that
occurred about 10,000 years ago before
then people's eyes were mostly brown
freckles can appear in newborns because
they only start manifesting under the
Sun if melanin in your skin isn't evenly
spread in the body freckles are what
you'll get being lazy is not a state of
mind but a complex reflex of your body
and reacts to the overwhelming amount of
stuff you have to do you sweat when
stressed because your body needs to cool
down before intense action your hands
get wet first because that'll help you
get a better grip laughing in
inappropriate situations is normal
laughter is a powerful stress reliever
your stomach growls because it starts a
digestive process when you hear that on
an empty stomach consider this a signal
to eat something the mean food for the
brain is glucose or sugar and that's why
you want something sweet when
intellectually tired the floaters you
can sometimes see when looking at a
light surface are imperfections inside
your eyes they stand in the way of light
coming through and become visible this
way hypnic jerks are what makes you
suddenly wake up with a feeling that
you're falling they occur because all
your muscles relax all at once and the
brain doesn't like it one bit your body
feels heavy and awkward when you're
tired because your nerves don't properly
react to the commands of your brain so
get some sleep
cracking your joints is absolutely safe
this sound is just the air bubble
popping inside the joint and it will
naturally return there after a short
while
even the single egg twins can look
totally different from each other it
most often happens in mixed-race couples
apart from regular albinism there's also
a type of ocular albinism in this case
melanin disappears only from the eyes
which makes them essentially colorless
not only a quarter of your bones are in
your feet but all of them are pretty
crucial they affect your posture and
internal organs as well hair grows at a
rate of about six inches per year in a
lifetime that would make more than 40
feet of hair not to mention hairy feet
which is totally different right-handed
people tend to do everything with the
right side even chew the food in their
mouth by the age of 60 you're likely to
lose half of your taste buds
that's why food seems to taste better in
childhood about half the people get
goose bumps when listening to their
favorite music it's a pleasure mechanism
that reacts to something you and your
body like you burn more calories than
sleeping than watching TV or YouTube so
go get some sleep already now for the
quiz yes I told you
what's the newly discovered lining
between other organs and muscles called
put your guests in the comments hey if
you learned something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other videos
I think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life
you